hello and welcome to the pulse I'm Ron
Roberson my very special guest today is
Pete Whelan he's the author of the book
the Saigon zoo to look into the war in
Vietnam and his work in it Pete welcome
thank you Ron good to see you again
we're old friends yes indeed good to see
you as well and I tell you I've read the
book and I find it fascinating some of
the things like to talk about it's sort
of a different look into the war in
Vietnam yeah I actually had a unique
experience in fact most people when I
first tell them they kind of stop and go
what I was a lifeguard at a swimming
pool in Vietnam at long been which was
the biggest military base on there and
most people don't even realize he had
swimming pools there and on long been
they had actually 12 above ground pools
yeah so yeah a little different then
what you expect yeah so that's I'm to
believe that while everybody else is
dodging bullets and sunken foxholes you
were at the swimming pool I was ever
straighten fall in fact when I talked to
combat vets at first a lot of them are
kind of like you know what and I go hey
I you know I didn't go to Canada I
didn't dodge the draft I just got lucky
but I'm you know a lot of people don't
realize in all wars for every combat
troop there's at least six seven or
eight non-combat people you know cooks
supply that type of thing of course not
too many lifeguards yeah and I think
it's fascinated to find out all the
different positions that people held
during the war and some of our very
unique now what prompted you don't want
to write this book well you know when I
first got out I would tell people I was
a lifeguard nigga what are you talking
about and I'd start telling someone like
stories and after a while a couple my
friend said God you got a lot of great
stories you ought to write a book that
was back in the 70s mm-hmm well in the
late 80s I started the book I thought
maybe I'll try it I didn't know if I'd
ever published it and I finished it and
published it so anyway Saigon zoo it's
called um viet nam's other war sex drugs
and rock and roll mm-hmm and that's not
a lot of drugs in Vietnam yeah yeah it's
anybody that was there will tell you
that whether combat or non-combat yeah
no now tell us how your book differs
from other books that have been written
about Vietnam yeah mine is the only one
except for on good morning Vietnam which
they made a movie out of the only one I
know that's actually a humorous book
it's funny book and I actually am one of
the few people you'll ever meet that had
a good time in Vietnam in fact I was
working at the pool when light 12 months
was up I extended for another 10 months
so I was actually there 22 months
because my job was so easy and actually
a lot of fun yeah you really go into and
you mentioned earlier that you get into
drug usage and that type of thing that
was pretty big and prominent probably
more of a survival mechanism than
anything else why did you choose to go
into the drug aspect of things well you
know it was so big there you have a lot
of 18 19 20 year-olds coming over there
we're talking late 60s when the drug
epidemic explosion really hit and over
there you could get I don't know if you
remember the old Ritz cracker cans that
were like this big you get a Ritz
cracker can full of grass marijuana for
ten dollars mm-hmm but they add on I
mean heroin that was the big one a lot
of heroin addicts came back from Vietnam
speed uppers downers I mean just every
drug imaginable and the price was so
cheap cocaine you know and it was a big
big problem there yeah and the
government didn't know how to handle it
they have no clue how to handle you know
drugged-out GIS yeah how did that affect
the day-to-day activities of those they
were up on the front lines being under
the influence like that yeah you'll talk
to when you talk to combat vets you know
a lot of them we're really down on the
guys that did drugs because they're out
on patrol in the jungle and you don't
want to be relying on a heroin addict to
you know save your butt or sitting
around a pool not much to worry about
didn't have to save too many people
because our full pull is only four feet
deep so you know our big joke was uh you
know when we train new lifeguards we'd
say okay here's the only rule if someone
goes down you just yell stand up stupid
that was that was basically all you
needed to know but the drugs were really
frowned upon on by the the grunts the
guys in the field right you know even
though a lot of them still did drugs
yeah
you you entitled the book the Saigon zoo
how much of a zoo was it it was it's a
big it's a big zoo I mean you had like I
said again the drugs plus you had a lot
of people a lot of people that drank you
know and so at night when you were in a
company area um there was a line that
the lifers the sergeant's wouldn't cross
at night they would never go below there
there where they lived was up above most
of more built on downward streets they
would never walk after dark below there
they were afraid of the guys because you
got the guys with guns and grenades
sitting around smoking dope and drinking
you know and and yeah they they were
definitely afraid of a lot of the GIS
it's a fascinating look and it takes you
beyond what most of us have really
thought about the Vietnam War and some
of the participants thereof is the book
solely about Vietnam veterans yeah it
starts actually my book starts its basic
a memoir it starts on the day that I
went to the recruiters office in
Inglewood and got tricked into joining
literally tricked into joining and it
ends on the day that I was flying home
March 31st 71 getting out of the army so
it covers strictly from day one to the
end of my tour and it's strictly about
that but the one thing I like to tell
people it's not it's not a book you
would think is written for GIS our
Vietnam veterans I did it install it's a
very easy read even a lot of women like
it's more of a comedy humorous book you
don't have to know military jargon you
don't have to understand the military to
get a kick out of this I kind of related
to mash which was the Korean War only of
course they were doctors um relate this
kind of like a mash situation yeah Nate
what do you hope the reader takes away
from this book you know they're they're
gonna I mean it's not like they're gonna
learn a lot they're definitely going to
learn a lot about what the guy's not
fighting the war we're doing the crazy
crazy stuff that went on there and a lot
of the repercussions from drug use but
again a lot of humorous stuff at the
pool when we closed at eight o'clock
good night that's when the fun really
started and we left the lights on we're
there until two three in the morning
although all the crazies came down to
the pool and partied all night and then
we opened up the next morning and did it
again how do we get ahold of you um I
have a website it's a Saigon zoo calm
and email is pete at saigon zoo calm and
i'm more than willing to answer any
questions if you want to buy a copy of
my book if you buy it for me you'll get
it a better price and i'll also sign it
so anyway yep saigon zoo video until the
war sex drugs rock and roll it's all
over it amazon all the sites carry it so
it's easy to find if you type in Saigon
zoo Vietnam so the war it will pop up
everywhere right and I guarantee you'll
get a lot of laughs out of it I tell
people um if you don't laugh out loud in
the first chapter then go ahead and put
it down anyway and it's a good book I
again I get it yeah I appreciate it very
well done and I have my autographed copy
that's right very much so yeah yeah
you're welcome thank you so much for
joining us and continued success thank
you great to see you again Ron thank you
good to see you as okay Pete Waylon my
guess he's the author of the Saigon zoo
available in Amazon and other book
outlets going out and secure yourself a
copy i'm ron robertson this is the pulse
you